# Endorphins-and-Exercise
This is a research paper on the Effects of Exercise on Human Endorphin Levels Through Hypothesis Testing (Design of Experiment)

## Abstract
Stress and anxiety are among the most pressing mental health problems today, especially for college students. Medical research into this area has shown that endorphin hormones released by the pituitary gland into the body help relieve stress, pain, anxiety, and create a general feeling of happiness in humans. Consequently, we decided to study stimulants of endorphin secretion in humans and hypothesized that exercise has an effect on this secretion, as derived from prior literature and research. We decided to subject our participants to the treatments of 100-meter outdoor run, 1-kilometer outdoor run, 5-kilometer outdoor run, 50-meter swim and 200-meter swim. The design used was a 5x5 Randomized Latin Square, with blocks on person-to-person variability and order of treatment. The Latin Squares were repeated 5 times to increase power and error degrees of freedom. Participants chosen were male, aged between 18 to 30, had no health ailments and lived in the city of Macondo. After creating linear models and ANOVA tables in R for each of the Latin Squares, we found exercise to be significant in causing an increase in endorphin level, thus proving our hypothesis. Further analysis and hypothesis testing showed that the longer the duration of the exercise, higher the endorphins increase. Thus, our study concluded that intense and long duration exercises can help reduce stress, pain and anxiety by inducing a steep increase in endorphin levels.
